Title: The complement system in lipid-mediated pathologies.
Abstract: The complement system, a coordinator and facilitator of the innate immune response, plays an essential role in maintaining host homeostasis. It promotes clearance of pathogen- and danger-associated molecular patterns, regulates adaptive immunity, and can modify various metabolic processes such as energy expenditure, lipid metabolism, and glucose homeostasis. In this review, we will focus on the intricate interplay between complement components and lipid metabolism. More precisely, we will display how alterations in the activation and regulation of the complement system affect pathological outcome in lipid-associated diseases, such as atherosclerosis, obesity, metabolic syndrome, age-related macular degeneration, and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. In addition to that, we will present and evaluate underlying complement-mediated physiological mechanisms, observed both 


Title: Application of ChatGPT-4 to oculomics: a cost-effective osteoporosis risk assessment to enhance management as a proof-of-principles model in 3PM.
Abstract: Oculomics is an emerging medical field that focuses on the study of the eye to detect and understand systemic diseases. ChatGPT-4 is a highly advanced AI model with multimodal capabilities, allowing it to process text and statistical data. Osteoporosis is a chronic condition presenting asymptomatically but leading to fractures if untreated. Current diagnostic methods like dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) are costly and involve radiation exposure. This study aims to develop a cost-effective osteoporosis risk prediction tool using ophthalmological data and ChatGPT-4 based on oculomics, aligning with predictive, preventive, and personalized medicine (3PM) principles.


Title: Preclinical evaluation of NG101, a potential AAV gene therapy for wet age-related macular degeneration.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of vision loss in individuals over the age of 55. Approximately 10%-15% of AMD patients develop choroidal neovascularization (CNV), leading to wet AMD (wAMD), which accounts for nearly 90% of AMD-related blindness. Inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the standard treatment for wAMD. However, the frequent administration of the current treatment imposes a significant burden on wAMD patients. Therefore, there is an unmet need for treatments that require less-frequent administration. Here, we present findings on the safety and efficacy of NG101, a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector encoding aflibercept, an anti-VEGF agent, for wAMD therapy. A single subretinal injection of NG101 effectively reduced CNV lesion leakage and size at doses as low as 1 × 10


Title: Bifocal retinal degeneration observed on ultra-widefield autofluorescence in some cases of CRX-associated retinopathy.
Abstract: Variants in CRX are associated with dominantly inherited retinopathy with considerable phenotypic variability. Many patients have central retinal degeneration; in some patients, we have observed an additional focus of degeneration in the nasal retina. This study explores this phenotypic association amongst patients with CRX-associated disease.


Title: Development and validation of CNN-MLP models for predicting anti-VEGF therapy outcomes in diabetic macular edema.
Abstract: Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a common complication of diabetes that can lead to vision loss, and anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) therapy is the standard of care for DME, but the treatment outcomes vary widely among patients. This study collected optical coherence tomography (OCT) images and clinical data from DME patients who received anti-VEGF treatment to develop and validate deep learning (DL) models for predicting the anti-VEGF outcomes in DME patients based on convolutional neural network (CNN) and multilayer perceptron (MLP) combined architecture by using multimodal data. An Xception-MLP architecture was utilized to predict best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central subfield thickness (CST), cube volume (CV), and cube average thickness (CAT). Mean absolute error (MAE), mean squared error (MSE) and mean squared logarithmic error (MSLE) were employed to evaluate the model performance. In this study, both the training set and the validation set exhibited a consistent decreasing trend in MAE, MSE, and MSLE. No statistical difference was found between the actual and predicted values in all clinical indicators. This study demonstrated that the improved CNN-MLP regression models using multimodal data can accurately predict outcomes in BCVA, CST, CV, and CAT after anti-VEGF therapy in DME patients, which is valuable for ophthalmic clinical decisions and reduces the economic burden on patients.


Title: Storage Stability and Solution Binding Affinity of an Fc-Fusion Mimetic.
Abstract: This study evaluates the storage stability and solution binding affinity of a novel Fc-fusion mimetic, receptor-PEG-receptor (RpR), designed to address limitations of the current therapeutic aflibercept, a gold-standard therapy for age-macular degeneration (AMD). Using di(bis-sulfone) PEG linker as a structural scaffold, the mimetic aims to improve the storage stability and binding efficacy of the Fc fusion protein. Mass photometry and size-exclusion chromatography demonstrated that RpR, even in an unformulated buffer, exhibits superior storage stability exceeding 10 months compared to aflibercept. Furthermore, microscale thermophoresis was employed to determine RpR's binding affinity to VEGF in solution, providing a more physiologically relevant assessment than traditional binding assays. These findings highlight RpR's potential as a therapeutic candidate for the treatment of AMD disease, warranting further investigation.


Title: Bilateral occlusive retinal vasculitis secondary to intravitreal faricimab injection: a case report and review of literature.
Abstract: This article describes a rare occurrence of bilateral retinal occlusive vasculitis secondary to intravitreal faricimab injection.


Title: A Novel Grid Strategy for Correlating Focal Macular Anatomic Changes With Focal Changes in Choriocapillaris Perfusion.
Abstract: To establish the repeatability of choriocapillaris flow deficit (CCFD) measurements within a macular grid and then demonstrate the use of this registered grid strategy to follow CCFD measurements over time.


Title: [Effects of air pollution on eye health].
Abstract: EFFECTS OF AIR POLLUTION ON EYE HEALTH. In addition to its well-known effects on cardio-respiratory health, air pollution could also have an impact on eye health. Indeed, certain air pollutants, especially fine particles and nitrogen dioxide, can enter the bloodstream, triggering oxidative and inflammatory mechanisms involved in the development of the major eye diseases (glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration [AMD], cataracts). Over the past 5 years, some 15 epidemiological studies carried out in Asia, Europe and Canada have consistently shown an increased risk of these diseases in individuals most exposed to air pollution at long term, particularly to fine particles. These results support the lowering of air pollution thresholds recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2021, which nevertheless continue to be exceeded in most European cities.


Title: Interplay between Lipids and Complement Proteins-How Multiomics Data Integration Can Help Unravel Age-related Macular Degeneration Pathophysiology: A Proof-of-concept Study.
Abstract: Our objectives were to identify correlation patterns between complement and lipid pathways using a multiomics data integration approach and to determine how these interconnections affect age-related macular degeneration (AMD).


Title: Effects of Dexamethasone Intravitreal Implant on Multifocal Electroretinography in Diabetic Macular Oedema.
Abstract: To evaluate the efficacy of the dexamethasone implant on the electrophysiological profile of Diabetic Macular Oedema (DMO) patients over six months.


Title: Genome-wide association analyses identify distinct genetic architectures for age-related macular degeneration across ancestries.
Abstract: To effectively reduce vision loss due to age-related macular generation (AMD) on a global scale, knowledge of its genetic architecture in diverse populations is necessary. A critical element, AMD risk profiles in African and Hispanic/Latino ancestries, remains largely unknown. We combined data in the Million Veteran Program with five other cohorts to conduct the first multi-ancestry genome-wide association study of AMD and discovered 63 loci (30 novel). We observe marked cross-ancestry heterogeneity at major risk loci, especially in African-ancestry populations which demonstrate a primary signal in a major histocompatibility complex class II haplotype and reduced risk at the established CFH and ARMS2/HTRA1 loci. Dissecting local ancestry in admixed individuals, we find significantly smaller marginal effect sizes for CFH risk alleles in African ancestry haplotypes. Broadening efforts to include ancestrally distinct populations helped uncover genes and pathways that boost risk in an ancestry-dependent manner and are potential targets for corrective therapies.


Title: Multi-spectral autofluorescence variability of the individual retinal pigmented epithelial cells in healthy aging eyes.
Abstract: The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is vital for the healthy function of the retina. Cellular level changes in the RPE are not visualized with current clinical techniques due to a lack of spatial resolution. Fluorescence adaptive optics scanning light ophthalmoscopy (AOSLO) can image RPE cells by utilizing their intrinsic autofluorescence (AF). The RPE AF has been imaged with only a few discrete excitation and emission bands and the multi-spectral AF has not been interrogated systematically at the level of single cells. In this study, we imaged 16 healthy eyes (ages 20-75) with AOSLO to investigate the multi-spectral AF as a function of age and wavelength with excitation from 650 - 805 nm. Quantitative analysis showed that 720 nm light produced images with the highest SNR (65.0 dB). Spatial AF variability showed a trend to increase with aging, suggesting increased heterogeneity in RPE AF with age. Spatial variability in the multi-spectral fluorescence of RPE cells with age may be a consequence of normal age-related loss of RPE cells. Multi-spectral fluorescence AOSLO provides new insight into aging related changes to RPE cells and may be a useful tool for studying diseases that affect the RPE, such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD).


Title: Clinical and Anatomical Features of Myopia.
Abstract: The purpose of the review is to summarize clinical and anatomically-related aspects of myopia. Recent studies have revealed macular atrophy as myopic maculopathy (MMP) stage-4 was accompanied by a central Bruch´s membrane (BM) defect associated with a subretinal proliferation (as sign of previous macular neovascularization). Patchy atrophies (MMP-stage 3) could be differentiated into those without versus with BM defects/subretinal proliferations. BM defects and subretinal proliferations were associated with each other (OR: 78.3; P < 0.001). Fundus tessellation as MMP-stage-1 correlated with visual acuity reduction, suggesting pathological changes already at MMP stage 1, in addition to a leptochoroid as risk factor. Myopic parapapillary beta zone (potentially caused by an axial elongation-related enlargement of the retinal pigment epithelium [RPE] layer opening; characterized by small or no alpha zone, few or no RPE drusen at its border, normal BM thickness) can be differentiated from glaucomatous parapapillary beta zone (characterized by alpha zone, RPE drusen, and thickened BM). The overlying retinal layers extended into the parapapillary zones, deeper than the superficial layers. Prevalence of non-glaucomatous optic neuropathy increased non-linearly with longer axial length in highly myopic eyes and was a major cause for vision loss in high myopia. In patients aged 85+ years, prevalence of MMP stage 3 or 4 in highly myopic eyes (axial length ≥ 26.5mm) was about 75%. Myopia was associated with a lower prevalence of diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration and angle-closure glaucoma, while high myopia, more than moderate myopia, was associated with higher prevalence and incidence of open-angle glaucoma.


Title: Design and Characterization of a Novel Intravitreal Dual-Transgene Genetic Medicine for Neovascular Retinopathies.
Abstract: Intravitreal delivery of therapeutic transgenes to the retina via engineered viral vectors can provide sustained local concentrations of therapeutic proteins and thus potentially reduce the treatment burden and improve long-term vision outcomes for patients with neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic macular edema (DME), and diabetic retinopathy.


Title: The Umbra and the Penumbra: Longitudinal Effects of Geographic Atrophy in AMD on the Outer Choroid by Imaging Analysis and Histopathological Correlation.
Abstract: To quantitate regional changes in the outer choroidal vessels in patients with geographic atrophy (GA) in AMD and to correlate with a histopathological donor sample.


Title: Initial experience with brolucizumab for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) in India - Multicentric, real-world study.
Abstract: To evaluate the anatomic and visual outcomes and safety profile of initial Indian eyes with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) treated with intravitreal injection (IVI) of brolucizumab.


Title: Evaluation of mesenchymal stem cells as an 
Abstract: Retinal pathologies are major causes of vision impairment and blindness in humans, and inherited retinal diseases (IRDs), such as retinitis pigmentosa, Leber congenital amaurosis, and Stargardt disease, greatly contribute to this problem. 


Title: Anatomic Outcomes With Faricimab vs. Aflibercept in the Head-to-Head Dosing Phase of the TENAYA/LUCERNE Trials in Neovascular AMD.
Abstract: To compare early anatomic outcomes following treatment with faricimab vs. aflibercept in a pooled analysis of the head-to-head dosing phase of the TENAYA/LUCERNE trials in neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD).


Title: Longitudinal Assessment of AMD using Ultrawide Field Imaging - The Optos PEripheral RetinA (OPERA) Follow-up Study.
Abstract: With the widespread availability of ultrawide field imaging, peripheral retinal abnormalities in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) have garnered attention. However, longitudinal studies on AMD peripheral findings are limited. This study aims to characterize and quantify these features over five years.


Title: Integrative analysis and knowledgebase construction of key candidate genes and pathways in age-related macular degeneration.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration is a retinal disease that severely impacts vision in the older population. Its gene-related heterogeneity has not been fully studied, increasing the burden of precise treatment, prevention and prognosis. Genetic variation and related information were collected, annotated and expanded from multiple related websites, and all the data were integrated into the online platform AMDGKB. Users can visit this database via the following link: http://amdgd.bioinf.org.cn/for their personalized applications knowledge-guided modeling and applications. This study also explored the heterogeneity of ethnicity and AMD subtypes via genetic variation, functional enrichment analysis and protein‒protein interactions. These results suggest that VEGFA, MT2A, CCL2 and SERPINF1 play different roles in the development of AMD in different ethnic groups. The enrichment analysis also revealed differences in the pathogenesis pathways of different ethnic groups and AMD subtypes. This study highlights that genetic heterogeneity needs to be considered in the process of diagnosis and treatment. AMDGKB provides information for investigating the transformation of genetic variation during AMD progression, as well as for future personalized applications in the diagnosis and prognosis of AMD.


Title: The effects of pregnancy on disease progression of retinitis pigmentosa.
Abstract: Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is the most common diagnosis in the ophthalmic genetics' clinic. Women with RP are often diagnosed during their reproductive years, posing significant challenges for family planning. The effects of pregnancy on RP progression is a frequently unanswered concern for these patients.


Title: Insights Into Cataract Surgery Outcomes In Age-Related Macular Degeneration: Real-World Perspectives Across Severity Grades.
Abstract: Cataract and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) share age as a main risk factor and thus have a high coincidence. Both conditions substantially reduce visual acuity. This study aimed to assess the impact of cataract surgery on visual acuity, retinal morphology, and vascular-endothelial-growth-factor (VEGF) inhibitor therapy in patients with AMD.


Title: Interpretable diagnostic system for multiocular diseases based on hybrid meta-heuristic feature selection.
Abstract: Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Cataract, Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) and Glaucoma are the four most common ocular conditions that affect a person's vision. Early detection in the asymptomatic stages can alleviate vision loss or slow down the progression of these diseases. However, manual diagnosis is a costly and tedious process, especially in mass screening applications. Computer aided diagnosis (CAD) systems serve as an aid to ophthalmologists in efficient diagnosis of ocular diseases. In particular, a generic CAD framework that detects multiple ocular diseases could be immensely beneficial. In the proposed work, a single framework for detection of the above-mentioned ocular diseases has been explored. Specifically, a pool of non-linear handcrafted features are extracted from fundus images, followed by feature selection using a hybrid optimization algorithm, where features are selected using JAYA algorithm (JA) first, followed sequentially by the Harris hawks optimization (HHO) algorithm. The selected features are used to train an extreme gradient boosting (XGB) model for disease classification. Unlike existing systems that restrict non-linear features to single ocular disease detection, the proposed system is the first of its kind for detection of the above-specified multiple ocular diseases in a generic framework, yielding 93 % accuracy, 91.3 % sensitivity, 96.4 % specificity, 90.4 % precision and 90.8 % F1 score. Further, in this study, Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) analysis is employed to gain insight on the impact of the non-linear features on the model's prediction capability. This work clearly demonstrates the importance of explainability that opens the 'black box' nature of machine learning (ML) model and clearly unveils the relationships among the features and the diagnosis. Also, the explainable ML model improves transparency of the model's decision-making process. The proposed algorithm can efficiently assist physicians in diagnosing the ocular diseases using fundus images in clinical practice, and avoids the subjective difference that comes with manual assessment.


Title: Sodium Iodate: Rapid and Clinically Relevant Model of AMD.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the most common cause of vision loss in people above the age of 50, affecting approximately 10% of the population worldwide and the incidence is rising. Hyperreflective foci (HRF) are a major predictor of AMD progression. The purpose of this study was to use the sodium iodate mouse model to study HRF formation in retinal degeneration.


Title: Prevalence and diversity of retinal disease in adults with Down syndrome.
Abstract: While epidemiologic data exists for some ophthalmic diseases in people with Down Syndrome (DS), like strabismus and amblyopia, no studies explore the prevalence of retinal disease in people with DS on a large scale. This study utilized a literature review and exploratory epidemiology analysis to examine patterns of retinal disease in people with DS. To evaluate previous studies on physiology and/or anatomy in retinal models representing DS or in the retinas of people with DS, all relevant terms related to Down Syndrome, retina, and retinal diseases were searched in PubMed and Scopus. Data from the health platform TriNetX was then utilized to determine the prevalence and prevalence odds ratio (POR) of retinal disorders, including diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), within the U.S. adult population with DS. The final literature review included 28 of 535 screened studies and found that a DS diagnosis was associated with atypical retinal vascularization, retinal thickening, and abnormal neuronal development. Of 55,198,979 individuals included in the population study, 97,795 (0.18%) had a recorded DS diagnosis. Compared to the population without DS, the population with DS had significantly increased PORs for any retinal diagnosis (3.78, 95% CI 3.63-3.93), for 16 of 18 recorded individual retinal diagnoses, and for 4 of 5 major diagnostic categories, including diabetic retinopathy (2.56, 95% CI 2.33-2.82) and macular degeneration (4.01, 95% CI 3.42-4.71). The conclusion is that retinal anomalies common to people with DS likely contribute to higher rates of recorded retinal disease. However, future studies should evaluate this relationship.


Title: Ocular immune-related diseases: molecular mechanisms and therapy.
Abstract: Ocular immune-related diseases, represent a spectrum of conditions driven by immune system dysregulation, include but not limit to uveitis, diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, Graves' ophthalmopathy, etc. The molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these diseases are typically dysfunctioned immune responses targeting ocular tissues, resulting in inflammation and tissue damage. Recent advances have further elucidated the pivotal role of different immune responses in the development, progression, as well as management of various ocular immune diseases. However, there is currently a relative lack of connection between the cellular mechanisms and treatments of several immune-related ocular diseases. In this review, we discuss recent findings related to the immunopathogenesis of above-mentioned diseases. In particular, we summarize the different types of immune cells, inflammatory mediators, and associated signaling pathways that are involved in the pathophysiology of above-mentioned ophthalmopathies. Furthermore, we also discuss the future directions of utilizing anti-inflammatory regime in the management of these diseases. This will facilitate a better understanding of the pathogenesis of immune-related ocular diseases and provide new insights for future treatment approaches.


Title: Effectiveness of a Novel Multimodal Intervention for Family Caregivers of Persons With Age-Related Macular Degeneration: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: Purpose Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of visual impairment in older adults. Individuals affected by AMD often require regular physical and emotional support from family caregivers. Carers of people with AMD endure significant physical burdens, emotional distress, increased financial stress, and disruptions due to their lifestyle and retirement plans as a direct consequence of the AMD caregiving experience. Despite this, there are currently no interventions targeted toward family caregivers of AMD patients. We evaluated the efficacy of a novel intervention aiming to improve the burden and well-being of family carers of persons with AMD. Methods Family carers of relatives with AMD were primarily recruited through private eye clinics and randomized 1:1 to either receive a 10-week intervention of mail-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy (M-CBT) and optional telephone-delivered group counseling (n = 47) or to a wait-list control group (n = 47). Outcome measures were assessed pre-intervention (baseline) and six months post-intervention. These included treatment acceptability, caregiver burden, presence of depressive symptoms, self-efficacy, quality of life (QoL), and fatigue. Results A total of 94 participants were enrolled, with 47 randomized to each arm. Of those who completed the intervention, 30 (97%) participants reported that they were satisfied/very satisfied with the intervention. Twenty-seven (87%) participants indicated that they would recommend the program to others, and 26 (84%) thought that the program was worth their time. Intervention participants demonstrated several positive nonsignificant improvements versus the control group at six months: burden (P= 0.53), depressive symptoms (P= 0.19), general self-efficacy (P= 0.14), QoL (P= 0.17) and fatigue (P= 0.15). Conclusions Study findings demonstrate that combined M-CBT and telephone counseling intervention appear to be feasible, but did not lead to nonsignificant improvements in outcome measures such as burden in family carers of persons with AMD.


Title: Abca4, mutated in Stargardt Disease, is required for cone outer segment structural integrity.
Abstract: Stargardt Disease (STGD), the leading cause of inherited childhood blindness, is primarily caused by mutations in the ABCA4 gene, yet the underlying mechanisms of photoreceptor degeneration remain elusive, partly due to limitations in existing animal disease models. To expand our understanding, we mutated the ABCA4 paralogues, abca4a and abca4b, in zebrafish, which has a cone-rich retina. Our study unveiled striking dysmorphology and elongation of cone outer segments in abca4a;abca4b double mutants, alongside reduced phagocytosis by the retinal pigmented epithelium. We report that Abca4 protein forms a distinctive stripe along the length of cone outer segments, suggesting a potential structural role. We further show that wild-type cone outer segments constitutively present externalized phosphatidylserine, an 'eat-me' signal, and this pattern is disrupted in abca4a;abca4b double mutants, potentially contributing to reduced RPE phagocytic activity. More broadly, constitutive presentation of the "eat-me" signal by cone outer segments, if conserved in humans, has important implications for other retinal degenerative diseases, including age-related macular degeneration. This zebrafish model provides novel insights into cone dysfunction and presents a promising platform for unraveling the mechanisms of STGD pathogenesis and advancing therapeutic interventions.


Title: Artificial intelligence in ophthalmology.
Abstract: To review role of artificial intelligence in medicine.


Title: Multimodal imaging in retinitis pigmentosa related to the EYS gene.
Abstract: This study aimed to characterize retinitis pigmentosa associated with the eyes shut homolog gene, which causes hereditary retinal degeneration.


Title: Diverse ancestry GWAS for advanced age-related macular degeneration in TOPMed-imputed and Ophthalmologically-confirmed 16,108 cases and 18,038 controls.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of blindness with $344 billion dollars global costs. In 2016, the International Age-related Macular Degeneration Genomics Consortium devised genomic data on ∼50,000 individuals (IAMDGC 1.0) and identified 52 variants across 34 loci associated with advanced AMD in European ancestry. We have now analyzed a more densely imputed version (IAMDGC 2.0) and performed cross-ancestry GWAS in 16,108 advanced AMD cases and 18,038 AMD-free controls. This identified 28 loci at P<5×10 


Title: Loss of 
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a prevalent cause of vision loss in the elderly with limited therapeutic options. A single chromosomal region around the complement factor H gene ( 


Title: ReCLAIM-2: A Randomized Phase II Clinical Trial Evaluating Elamipretide in Age-related Macular Degeneration, Geographic Atrophy Growth, Visual Function, and Ellipsoid Zone Preservation.
Abstract: This study evaluated the safety and efficacy of elamipretide in dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD) with noncentral geographic atrophy (GA).


Title: Initial treatment response can predict one-year treatment outcomes in neovascular age-related macular degeneration treated according to the observe-and-plan regimen.
Abstract: To investigate if the initial treatment response can predict the 1-year treatment outcomes in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) treated according to the observe-and-plan (O&P) regimen.


Title: The Ercc1
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a major cause of vision loss in older adults. AMD is caused by degeneration in the macula of the retina. The retina is the highest oxygen consuming tissue in our body and is prone to oxidative damage. DNA damage is one hallmark of aging implicated in loss of organ function. Genome instability has been associated with several disorders that result in premature vision loss. We hypothesized that endogenous DNA damage plays a causal role in age-related retinal changes. To address this, we used a genetic model of systemic depletion of expression of the DNA repair enzyme ERCC1-XPF. The neural retina and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) from Ercc1


Title: Extensive Macular Atrophy with Pseudodrusen-like appearance (EMAP) Clinical characteristics, diagnostic criteria, and insights from allied Inherited Retinal Diseases and Age-related Macular Degeneration.
Abstract: Extensive macular atrophy with pseudodrusen-like appearance (EMAP) was first described in France in 2009 as a symmetric and rapidly progressive form of macular atrophy primarily affecting middle-aged individuals. Despite the recent identification of a significant number of cases in Italy and worldwide, EMAP remains an underrecognized condition. The clinical triad typical of EMAP consists of vertically oriented macular atrophy with multilobular borders, pseudodrusen-like deposits across the posterior pole and mid-periphery, and peripheral pavingstone degeneration. Nonetheless, recent research has portrayed EMAP as a highly stage-dependent condition, allowing the identification of novel disease hallmarks, including a diffuse separation between the Bruch's membrane and the retinal pigment epithelium, along with consistent sparing of a region temporal to the macula. Additionally, retinal electrophysiology is particularly useful in distinguishing EMAP from age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Supported by unpublished data from the largest EMAP cohorts worldwide, this review aims to provide a comprehensive and updated description of EMAP, now recognized as a severely blinding disease characterized by diffuse chorioretinal atrophy and photoreceptor dysfunction. Furthermore, we propose a set of diagnostic criteria that incorporate clinical, imaging, and functional tests, to facilitate the recognition of this clinical entity. Lastly, we aim to shed light on its pathogenesis by comparing it with AMD and monogenic retinal disorders exhibiting similar phenotypes.


Title: Associations Between Contrast Sensitivity, OCT Features and Progression from Intermediate to Late Age-related Macular Degeneration.
Abstract: Establishing associations between structure, function, and clinical outcomes in intermediate age-related macular degeneration (iAMD) remains an unmet need. This study aims to (1) cross-sectionally investigate the relationships between optical coherence tomography (OCT) biomarkers and quantitative contrast sensitivity function (qCSF)-measured contrast sensitivity (CS), and (2) longitudinally assess their relationship with progression from iAMD to late stages of the disease.


Title: An mRNA-encoded dominant-negative inhibitor of transcription factor RUNX1 suppresses vitreoretinal disease in experimental models.
Abstract: Messenger RNA (mRNA)-based therapies are a promising approach to medical treatment. Except for infectious diseases, no other disease has mRNA-based therapies available. The eye is an ideal model for mRNA therapeutic development because it requires limited dosing. Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) is a blinding condition caused by retinal detachment that now lacks available medical treatment, with surgery as the only treatment option. We previously implicated runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1) as a driver of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in PVR and as a critical mediator of aberrant ocular angiogenesis when up-regulated. On the basis of these findings, an mRNA was designed to express a dominant-negative inhibitor of RUNX1 (RUNX1-Trap). We show that RUNX1-Trap delivered in polymer-lipidoid complexes or lipid nanoparticles sequestered RUNX1 in the cytosol and strongly reduced proliferation in primary cell cultures established from fibrotic membranes derived from patients with PVR. We assessed the preclinical efficacy of intraocular delivery of mRNA-encoded RUNX1-Trap in a rabbit model of PVR and in a laser-induced mouse model of aberrant angiogenesis often used to study wet age-related macular degeneration. mRNA-encoded RUNX1-Trap suppressed ocular pathology, measured as pathological scores in the rabbit PVR model and leakage and lesion size in the laser-induced choroidal neovascularization mouse model. mRNA-encoded RUNX1-Trap also strongly reduced proliferation in a human ex vivo explant model of PVR. These data demonstrate the therapeutic potential of mRNA-encoded therapeutic molecules with dominant-negative properties, highlighting the potential of mRNA-based therapies beyond standard gene supplementation approaches.


Title: Retinal pigment epithelial cells reduce vascular leak and proliferation in retinal neovessels.
Abstract: In multiple neurodegenerative diseases, including age-related macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa, and macular telangiectasia type 2 (MacTel), retinal pigment epithelial (RPE)-cells proliferate and migrate into the neuroretina, forming intraretinal pigment plaques. Though these pigmentary changes are hallmarks of disease progression, it is unknown if their presence is protective or detrimental.Here, we first evaluated the impact of pigment plaques on vascular changes and disease progression in MacTel. In a retrospective, longitudinal study, we analyzed multimodal retinal images of patients with MacTel and showed that pigment plaques were associated with decreased vascular leakage and stabilized neovascular growth. We then modeled the underlying pathomechanisms of pigment plaque formation in aberrant neovascular growth using the very-low-density lipoprotein receptor mutant (Vldlr


Title: Association between the ARMS2 rs10490924 risk genotype and dry-age related macular degeneration patients with and without reticular pseudodrusen in a Turkish population: findings from a study conducted at a tertiary clinic.
Abstract: To evaluate the relationship between the presence of reticular pseudodrusen (RPD) and the risk allele of ARMS2 rs10490924 variation in dry-AMD patients by using multimodal imaging. Also, to compare patients with and without RPD and healthy volunteers according to the distribution of the risk allele.


Title: Efficacy and safety of complement inhibitors in patients with geographic atrophy associated with age-related macular degeneration: a network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
Abstract: Clinical trials in recent years have shown significant effectiveness of complement inhibitors for geographic atrophy (GA) treatment. Two complement inhibitor drugs have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).


Title: Beneficial Effects of Micronutrient Supplementation in Restoring the Altered Microbiota and Gut-Retina Axis in Patients with Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration-A Randomized Clinical Trial.
Abstract: None


Title: Revolutionizing Eye Care: Exploring the Potential of Microneedle Drug Delivery.
Abstract: Microneedle technology revolutionizes ocular drug delivery by addressing challenges in treating ocular diseases. This review explores its potential impact, recent advancements, and clinical uses. This minimally invasive technique offers precise control of drug delivery to the eye, with various microneedle types showing the potential to penetrate barriers in the cornea and sclera, ensuring effective drug delivery. Recent advancements have improved safety and efficacy, offering sustained and controlled drug delivery for conditions like age-related macular degeneration and glaucoma. While promising, challenges such as regulatory barriers and long-term biocompatibility persist. Overcoming these through interdisciplinary research is crucial. Ultimately, microneedle drug delivery presents a revolutionary method with the potential to significantly enhance ocular disease treatment, marking a new era in eye care.


Title: Rutin-Activated Nuclear Factor Erythroid 2-Related Factor 2 (Nrf2) Attenuates Corneal and Heart Damage in Mice.
Abstract: None


Title: Application of Artificial Intelligence Models to Predict the Onset or Recurrence of Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration.
Abstract: Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) is one of the major causes of vision impairment that affect millions of people worldwide. Early detection of nAMD is crucial because, if untreated, it can lead to blindness. Software and algorithms that utilize artificial intelligence (AI) have become valuable tools for early detection, assisting doctors in diagnosing and facilitating differential diagnosis. AI is particularly important for remote or isolated communities, as it allows patients to endure tests and receive rapid initial diagnoses without the necessity of extensive travel and long wait times for medical consultations. Similarly, AI is notable also in big hubs because cutting-edge technologies and networking help and speed processes such as detection, diagnosis, and follow-up times. The automatic detection of retinal changes might be optimized by AI, allowing one to choose the most effective treatment for nAMD. The complex retinal tissue is well-suited for scanning and easily accessible by modern AI-assisted multi-imaging techniques. AI enables us to enhance patient management by effectively evaluating extensive data, facilitating timely diagnosis and long-term prognosis. Novel applications of AI to nAMD have focused on image analysis, specifically for the automated segmentation, extraction, and quantification of imaging-based features included within optical coherence tomography (OCT) pictures. To date, we cannot state that AI could accurately forecast the therapy that would be necessary for a single patient to achieve the best visual outcome. A small number of large datasets with high-quality OCT, lack of data about alternative treatment strategies, and absence of OCT standards are the challenges for the development of AI models for nAMD.


Title: Advances in Imaging-Based Machine Learning and Therapeutic Technology in the Management of Retinal Diseases.
Abstract: Retinal conditions like age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy, central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR), and retinal vein occlusion can drastically affect a patient's quality of life [...].


Title: Selected Trace Elements and Their Impact on Redox Homeostasis in Eye Health.
Abstract: Oxidative stress plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of various ocular degenerative diseases, leading to structural and functional changes in eye tissues. This imbalance between reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidants significantly contributes to conditions such as age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, cataracts, and glaucoma. Both enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants are vital for maintaining ocular health by neutralizing ROS and restoring cellular redox balance. Essential trace elements, including iron, zinc, copper, and selenium, are fundamental for the proper functioning of these antioxidant systems. Iron is indispensable for enzymatic activity and cellular energy production, zinc supports numerous proteins involved in visual functions and antioxidant defense, copper is essential for various enzymatic reactions preventing oxidative stress, and selenium is critical for the activity of antioxidant enzymes such as glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and thioredoxin reductase (TrxR). This review summarizes current research on the complex interactions between oxidative stress and trace elements in ocular diseases, highlighting the therapeutic potential of antioxidant supplementation to mitigate oxidative damage and improve eye health. By integrating insights from studies on oxidative stress, trace elements, and eye physiology, this article underscores new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies that could lead to more effective prevention and treatment of ocular diseases, aiming to enhance clinical outcomes and guide future research in optimizing therapeutic strategies for eye health.


Title: Involvement of 
Abstract: None


Title: Thrombospondin 1 Mediates Autophagy Upon Inhibition of the Rho-Associated Protein Kinase Inhibitor.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a degenerative eye disease leading to central vision loss and is characterized by dysregulated autophagy of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) layer. Recent studies have suggested that rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitors may enhance autophagy in neurodegenerative diseases and promote the survival of RPE cells. This study investigated the effect of ROCK inhibitors on autophagy gene expression and autophagic vacuole formation in a human RPE (ARPE-19) cell line. The highly selective and potent ROCK inhibitor Y-39983 enhanced the expression of autophagy genes in ARPE-19 cells and increased autophagic vacuole formation. A proteomic analysis using mass spectrometry was performed to further characterize the effects of ROCK inhibition at the protein level. Y-39983 downregulated thrombospondin-1 (THBS1), and suppression of THBS1 in ARPE-19 cells resulted in an increase in autophagic vacuole formation. Our data showed that ROCK inhibitor-induced autophagy was mediated by THBS1 downregulation. We identified ROCK and THBS1 as potential novel therapeutic targets in AMD.


Title: (Photo)toxicity of Partially Oxidized Docosahexaenoate and Its Effect on the Formation of Lipofuscin in Cultured Human Retinal Pigment Epithelial Cells.
Abstract: Docosahexaenoate is a cytoprotective ω-3 polyunsaturated lipid that is abundant in the retina and is essential for its function. Due to its six unsaturated double bonds, docosahexaenoate is highly susceptible to oxidation and the formation of products with photosensitizing properties. This study aimed to test on cultured human retinal pigment epithelial cells ARPE-19 the (photo)cytotoxic potential of partly oxidized docosahexaenoate and its effect on the formation of lipofuscin from phagocytosed photoreceptor outer segments (POSs). The results demonstrate that the cytoprotective effects of docosahexaenoate do not counteract the deleterious effects of its oxidation products, leading to the concentration-dependent loss of cell metabolic activity, which is exacerbated by concomitant exposure to visible light. Partly oxidized docosahexaenoate does not cause permeability of the cell plasma membrane but does cause apoptosis. While vitamin E can provide partial protection from the (photo)toxicity of partly oxidized docosahexaenoate, zeaxanthin undergoes rapid photodegradation and can exacerbate the (photo)toxicity. Feeding cells with POSs enriched in partly oxidized docosahexaenoate results in a greater accumulation of intracellular fluorescent lipofuscin than in cells fed POSs without the addition. In conclusion, partly oxidized docosahexaenoate increases the accumulation of lipofuscin-like intracellular deposits, is cytotoxic, and its toxicity increases during exposure to light. These effects may contribute to the increased progression of geographic atrophy observed after long-term supplementation with docosahexaenoate in age-related macular degeneration patients.


Title: Intervention design for artificial intelligence-enabled macular service implementation: a primary qualitative study.
Abstract: Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) is one of the largest single-disease contributors to hospital outpatient appointments. Challenges in finding the clinical capacity to meet this demand can lead to sight-threatening delays in the macular services that provide treatment. Clinical artificial intelligence (AI) technologies pose one opportunity to rebalance demand and capacity in macular services. However, there is a lack of evidence to guide early-adopters seeking to use AI as a solution to demand-capacity imbalance. This study aims to provide guidance for these early adopters on how AI-enabled macular services may best be implemented by exploring what will influence the outcome of AI implementation and why.


Title: Frailty and Visual Impairment in Elderly Individuals: Improving Outcomes and Modulating Cognitive Decline Through Collaborative Care Between Geriatricians and Ophthalmologists.
Abstract: None


Title: Small Extracellular Vesicle-Associated MiRNAs in Polarized Retinal Pigmented Epithelium.
Abstract: Oxidative stress in the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) has been implicated in age-related macular degeneration by impacting endocytic trafficking, including the formation, content, and secretion of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Using our model of polarized primary porcine RPE (pRPE) cells under chronic subtoxic oxidative stress, we tested the hypothesis that RPE miRNAs packaged into EVs are secreted in a polarized manner and contribute to maintaining RPE homeostasis.


Title: Major sight-threatening eye disorders and mental disorders.
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to: (a) investigate the comorbidities of major sight-threatening eye disorders with mental disorders, (b) investigate the associations and prevalence of reported comorbidities and (c) identify potential influencing factors. A systematic review of the PubMed, Embase, Web of Science and Cochrane Library databases was conducted from inception to 30 December 2023. Studies that presented only laboratory results or used non-representative sampling methods were excluded. Meta-analyses were performed using the inverse variance method with a random-effects model. A total of 67 studies were included in the analysis. The most prevalent comorbidities were diabetic retinopathy (DR) and depression (pooled prevalence of 30%) and DR and anxiety (pooled prevalence of 29%). Significant associations were found between glaucoma and depression (odds ratio [OR] = 1.42, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.21-1.66), glaucoma and anxiety (OR = 2.11, 95% CI = 1.22-3.66), glaucoma and schizophrenia (OR = 1.38, 95% CI = 1.28-1.50), age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and depression (OR = 1.36, 95% CI = 1.18-1.57), and DR and depression (OR = 1.03, 95% CI = 1.01-1.06). Income was identified as a significant contributing factor to the prevalence of comorbidity between glaucoma and depression. Major sight-threatening eye disorders were significantly associated with mental disorders, particularly depression and anxiety. The burden of comorbidity between major sight-threatening eye disorders and mental disorders is not optimistic and may be influenced by income disparities. Healthcare providers are encouraged to assess and manage potential comorbidities to optimize patient outcomes.


Title: Association between dietary consumption of multiple vitamins and age-related macular degeneration: a cross-sectional observational study in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2008.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is one of the common causes of blindness in the elderly worldwide. Its prevention and monitoring indicators remain a key area of research. This study aims to examine the association between vitamin intake and AMD prevalence.


Title: Non-exudative OCT findings in neovascular AMD.
Abstract: In this narrative review we describe the main optical coherence tomography biomarkers appearing in eyes with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) that do not directly correspond to exudation. We highlight those signs that may mimic exudation and therefore do not require active treatment, such as outer retinal tubulations, pseudocysts, lipid globules, or hyporeflective wedges. Other signs may indicate impending exudation such as hyperreflective foci or shallow irregular retinal pigment epithelium elevation, and therefore should be carefully monitored. We also review and summarize the different origins of subretinal hyperreflective material and describe the main signs of degeneration seen in eyes with AMD, such as outer retinal tubulation, thinning of the retinal layers, outer retinal atrophy, and choroidal changes.


Title: Real-world therapy and persistence of patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy or diabetic macular edema: a German claims data analysis.
Abstract: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibition is the current and high-volume standard-of-care for patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) with diabetic macular edema (DME). This study assessed the impact of non-persistence in anti-VEGF treatment using claims data from two German states.


Title: Distinguishing 
Abstract: None


Title: A deconvolution framework that uses single-cell sequencing plus a small benchmark dataset for accurate analysis of cell type ratios in complex tissue samples.
Abstract: Bulk deconvolution with single-cell/nucleus RNA-seq data is critical for understanding heterogeneity in complex biological samples, yet the technological discrepancy across sequencing platforms limits deconvolution accuracy. To address this, we utilize an experimental design to match inter-platform biological signals, hence revealing the technological discrepancy, and then develop a deconvolution framework called DeMixSC using this well-matched, i.e., benchmark, data. Built upon a novel weighted nonnegative least-squares framework, DeMixSC identifies and adjusts genes with high technological discrepancy and aligns the benchmark data with large patient cohorts of matched-tissue-type for large-scale deconvolution. Our results using two benchmark datasets of healthy retinas and ovarian cancer tissues suggest much-improved deconvolution accuracy. Leveraging tissue-specific benchmark datasets, we applied DeMixSC to a large cohort of 453 age-related macular degeneration patients and a cohort of 30 ovarian cancer patients with various responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Only DeMixSC successfully unveiled biologically meaningful differences across patient groups, demonstrating its broad applicability in diverse real-world clinical scenarios. Our findings reveal the impact of technological discrepancy on deconvolution performance and underscore the importance of a well-matched dataset to resolve this challenge. The developed DeMixSC framework is generally applicable for accurately deconvolving large cohorts of disease tissues, including cancers, when a well-matched benchmark dataset is available.


Title: Predicting long-term functional anti-VEGF treatment outcomes in neovascular AMD in a real-world setting.
Abstract: To test to what degree retinal fluid (RF) after the loading phase and at the end of year 1 predicts long-term functional outcomes in neovascular macular degeneration (nAMD), as do macular (MA) atrophy, treatment density and treatment interval extension.


Title: Adult Onset Foveomacular Vitelliform Dystrophy Shows Genetic Overlap With Age-Related Macular Degeneration.
Abstract: Adult-onset foveomacular vitelliform dystrophy (AFVD) shares phenotypic similarities with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The genetic factors associated with AFVD are unknown in >80% of cases. This study evaluated the association of known AMD genetic risk variants with AFVD and compared systemic complement activation in these conditions.


Title: The role of complement factor I rare genetic variants in age related macular degeneration in Finland.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the developed world. The alternative pathway (AP) of complement has been linked to the pathogenesis of AMD. In particular, rare variants (RVs) in the complement factor I (CFI) gene encoding the Factor I (FI) protein confer increased AMD risk. The prevalence of CFI RVs are well characterised in European AMD, however little is known about other populations. The Finnish population underwent genetic restriction events which have skewed allele frequencies in unexpected ways. A series of novel or enriched CFI RVs were identified in individuals with dry AMD from the Finnish Biobank Cooperative (FINBB), but the relationship between these genotypes and contribution to disease was unclear. Understanding how RVs impact the ability of FI to regulate the complement system is important to inform mechanistic understanding for how different genotypes contribute to disease development. To explore this a series of in vitro assays were used to functionally characterise the protein products of 3 CFI RVs enriched in FINBB dry AMD, where no prior data were available. The G547R variant resulted in almost complete loss of both classical pathway and AP regulatory potential. The c.982 g>a variant encoding G328R FI perturbed an exon splice enhancer site which resulted in exon skipping and a premature stop codon in vitro and low levels of FI in vivo. Despite detailed analysis no defect in levels or function was demonstrated in T107A. Functional characterization of all Finnish CFI RVs in the cohort allowed us to demonstrate that in Finnish dry AMD, collectively the type 1 CFI RVs (associated with FI haploinsufficiency) were significantly enriched with odds ratio (ORs) of 72.6 (95% confidence interval; CI 16.92 to 382.1). Meanwhile, type 2 CFI RVs (associated with FI dysfunction) collectively conferred a significant OR of 4.97 (95% CI 1.522 to 15.74), and non-impaired or normal CFI RV collectively conferred an of OR 3.19 (95% CI 2.410 to 4.191) although this was driven primarily by G261D. Overall, this study for the first time determined the ORs and functional effect for all CFI RVs within a Geographic Atrophy (GA) cohort, enabling calculations of combined risk scores that underline the risk conferred by type 1 and 2 CFI RVs in GA/AMD.


Title: An Eye on Extracellular Vesicles: Trends and Clinical Translations in Vision Research.
Abstract: To perform a review of research, funding, and clinical translation efforts for extracellular vesicles (EVs) within vision science.


Title: OCT Changes Observed during the Progression of Early Age-Related Macular Degeneration.
Abstract: Automated retinal cell layer segmentation empowers OCT as a precise tool for characterizing morphologic features of retinal health throughout age-related macular degeneration (AMD) progression, particularly in advance of more visible biomarkers such as drusen and macular pigmentary changes. Few studies have examined OCT changes in eyes progressing from early to intermediate disease, or combined examinations of cell layer thickness, reflectivity, and heterogeneity. Therefore, this study analyzed OCTs from eyes progressing from early to intermediate AMD to identify changes in retinal morphology and reflectivity that may serve as biomarkers of early progression.


Title: IL-6 Exacerbates Oxidative Damage of RPE Cells by Indirectly Destabilizing the mRNA of DNA Repair Genes.
Abstract: Chronic inflammation has been associated with the progression of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and diabetic retinopathy (DR), and the levels of various inflammatory factors are significantly increased in intraocular fluids of patients with AMD and DR. Therefore, elucidating the roles of inflammatory factors in the oxidative damage of RPE cells will help uncover the pathogenesis of AMD and DR. We have previously demonstrated that E2F1 plays an important role in the antioxidant capacity of RPE cells. Here, our transcriptome analysis shows that E2F1 affected the expressions of DNA repair genes in RPE cells. In addition, we found that E2F1 transactivated the splicing factor SRSF1. SRSF1 knockdown promoted DNA oxidative damage and apoptosis and decreased the mRNA stability of DNA repair genes XRCC2, POLK and LIG4 in RPE cells. Moreover, we found that SRSF1 could bind to the RNA stabilizing factor MATR3, and knockdown of the latter affected the mRNA stability of these DNA repair genes. Notably, interleukin-6 (IL-6), an inflammatory factor upregulated in intraocular fluids of patients with AMD and DR, decreased SRSF1 expression by inducing acetylation of E2F1 at the K125 position. Consistently, SRSF1 overexpression relieved IL-6-induced DNA oxidative damage and apoptosis in RPE cells. In vivo experiment results also confirmed that IL-6 could aggravate retinal oxidative damage. In conclusion, high levels of IL-6 in the eyes of patients with AMD and DR destabilize the mRNAs of DNA repair genes by disrupting the expression of SRSF1, leading to abnormal repair of DNA oxidative damage in RPE cells.


Title: Visual Loss in Geographic Atrophy: Learnings From the Lampalizumab Trials.
Abstract: To assess the correlation of lesion growth rate and baseline factors, including foveal involvement and focality, on visual loss as measured by best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in patients with geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD).


Title: Considerations and derivations of permitted daily exposure limits for impurities from intravitreal pharmaceutical products.
Abstract: Intravitreal (IVT) injection is an uncommon route of parenteral administration for therapeutic medications, but one of the most important for the treatment of ocular diseases, especially those related to macular degeneration. Nonetheless, there are currently no regulatory guidelines that specifically address how to establish a permitted daily exposure (PDE) for impurities and residual process reagents in IVT pharmaceutical drug products given the unique vulnerability of ocular tissues. The establishment of PDEs for IVT administration is complicated by the limited understanding of metabolism and clearance of small molecular weight chemicals from the human vitreous humor (VH), a problem compounded by the limited IVT-specific toxicological data. In this paper, we describe a feasible and comprehensive methodology for deriving PDE limits for impurities and residual process reagents from IVT drug products, as exemplified by five case studies, including inorganic elements, formic acid, polyethylene glycols, acetic acid, and caprolactam. The five case studies were selected to cover compounds with a wide range of impurity sources and toxicological data availability. The proposed framework considers both local ocular and systemic toxicity endpoints and advances the goal of a harmonized, science-based approach for deriving IVT PDE limits.


Title: Antioxidant properties of the soluble carotenoprotein AstaP and its feasibility for retinal protection against oxidative stress.
Abstract: Photodamage to the outer segments of photoreceptor cells and their impaired utilization by retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells contribute to the development of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) leading to blindness. Degeneration of photoreceptor cells and RPE cells is triggered by reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by photochemical reactions involving bisretinoids, by-products of the visual cycle, which accumulate in photoreceptor discs and lipofuscin granules of RPE. Carotenoids, natural antioxidants with high potential efficacy against a wide range of ROS, may protect against the cytotoxic properties of lipofuscin. To solve the problem of high hydrophobicity of carotenoids and increase their bioaccessibility, specialized proteins can ensure their targeted delivery to the affected tissues. In this study, we present new capabilities of the recombinant water-soluble protein AstaP from Coelastrella astaxanthina Ki-4 (Scenedesmaceae) for protein-mediated carotenoid delivery and demonstrate how zeaxanthin delivery suppresses oxidative stress in a lipofuscin-enriched model of photoreceptor and pigment epithelium cells. AstaP in complex with zeaxanthin can effectively scavenge various ROS (singlet oxygen, free radical cations, hydrogen peroxide) previously reported to be generated in AMD. In addition, we explore the potential of optimizing the structure of AstaP to enhance its thermal stability and resistance to proteolytic activity in the ocular media. This optimization aims to maximize the prevention of retinal degenerative changes in AMD.


Title: Homonymous hemi-macular atrophy in multiple sclerosis.
Abstract: Retrograde trans-synaptic degeneration (TSD) following retro-chiasmal pathology, typically retro-geniculate in multiple sclerosis (MS), may manifest as homonymous hemi-macular atrophy (HHMA) of the ganglion cell/inner plexiform layer (GCIPL).


Title: Extracting full information from OCT scans-signs of early age-related macular degeneration within inner retinal layers by local neighbourhood statistics. Part II: Results.
Abstract: Associations between the occurrence of early age related macular degeneration (AMD) and alterations in retinal layer thicknesses have been reported, based on classical processing of optical coherence tomography (OCT) data by noise removal and subsequent image segmentation. However, speckle noise within OCT data itself bears a substantial part of the total information. For this reason, we designed an omics-type approach for full exploitation of OCT data, which was able to identify signs of early AMD throughout the retina as a whole.


Title: Extracting full information from OCT scans-signs of early age-related macular degeneration within inner retinal layers by local neighbourhood statistics. Part I: Methodology.
Abstract: Associations between the occurrence of early age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and alterations in retinal layer thicknesses have been reported based on classical processing of optical coherence tomography (OCT) data by noise removal and subsequent image segmentation. However, speckle noise within OCT data itself bears a substantial part of the total information. For this reason, an omics-type approach was designed for full exploitation of OCT data, which was able to identify signs of early AMD throughout the retina as a whole.


Title: Self-reported visual function and in-depth swept-source optical coherence tomography features of cystoid macular edema in retinitis pigmentosa.
Abstract: To evaluate self-reported visual function in retinitis pigmentosa (RP) patients with and without cystoid macular edema (CME) and to explore associations between cystoid spaces (CS), retinal morphometric parameters, and clinical data using swept-source optical coherence tomography (SS-OCT).


Title: Photoreceptor assessment in age-related macular degeneration.
Abstract: Clinical trials investigating drugs for various stages of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) are actively underway and there is a strong interest in outcomes that demonstrate a structure-function-correlation. The ellipsoid zone (EZ), a crucial anatomical feature affected in this disease, has emerged as a strong contender. There is significant interest in evaluating EZ metrics on Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), such as integrity and reflectivity, as disruption of this photoreceptor-rich layer may indicate disease progression. Loss of photoreceptor integrity in the junctional zone of geographic atrophy (GA) has been shown to exceed the areas of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) atrophy, thus predicting future GA expansion. Furthermore, reduced visual acuity and retinal sensitivity have been correlated with loss of EZ integrity, underscoring a structure-function relationship. Photoreceptor integrity has also recently been acknowledged by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), supporting its use as a primary endpoint in clinical trials investigating treatments for GA. However, the segmentation of this EZ still poses challenges. Continuous enhancements in OCT resolution and advancements in automated segmentation algorithms contribute to improved assessment of the EZ, strengthening its potential as an imaging biomarker for assessing photoreceptor function. It remains to be seen whether the EZ will serve as a surrogate marker for intermediate AMD. This article aims to provide an overview of the current understanding and knowledge of the EZ, while addressing ongoing challenges encountered in its assessment and interpretation.


Title: Gene therapy for geographic atrophy in age-related macular degeneration: current insights.
Abstract: Geographic atrophy (GA) is the advanced stage of non-neovascular (dry) age-related macular degeneration, defined by the presence of sharply demarcated atrophic lesions of the outer retina. The complement system is integral to the body's natural immune response, and hence its overactivation can lead to tissue damage and inflammation. It has been shown to play a significant role in GA lesion development and progression, and therefore, complement inhibition is emerging as a promising avenue for therapeutic intervention. With the recent approval by the Food and Drug Administration of drugs like SYFOVRE™ (pegcetacoplan injection) and IZERVAY™ (avacincaptad pegol intravitreal solution), there is hope for the development of interventions capable of slowing down or arresting the progression of GA. In particular, gene therapy intervention is gaining traction for halting GA atrophy at the source of our genes. The concept is to insert a gene into the eye that will act as an ocular "bio-factory," producing a desired protein. This can either lead to overproduction of an already available protein or produce a substance not typically generated in the eye. This review aims to provide an overview of the present understanding of GA, encompassing risk factors, prevalence, pathophysiology, and genetic associations. It will also highlight the current landscape of GA treatment, with particular emphasis on gene therapy intervention.


Title: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitor alleviates retinal barrier toxicity in paclitaxel-induced retinopathy and macular edema by inhibiting CAXIV.
Abstract: To investigate the mechanism of paclitaxel (PTX)-induced macular edema and the therapeutic effect of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAI) on this condition.


Title: Choroidal macrophages in homeostasis, aging and age-related macular degeneration.
Abstract: With increasing age, the optimal functioning of the choroid is essential for efficient removal of waste products formed from photoreceptor renewal. A decline in regulatory elements of the immune system, termed immunosenescence, and the failure of para-inflammation to restore tissue homeostasis can result in the progression of healthy aging to sight-threatening inflammation of the choroid. Macrophages are uniquely situated between the innate and adaptive immune systems, with a high capacity for phagocytosis, recognition of complement components, as well as antigen presentation. In this review, we provide an overview of macrophages and their properties in the healthy choroid and cover the impact of aging, immunosenescence and inflammaging on the function of choroidal macrophages. We will discuss the impact of age on macrophage phenotype and behaviour in the pathophysiology of age-related macular degeneration.


Title: Impact of Deprivation and Preferential Usage on Functional Connectivity Between Early Visual Cortex and Category-Selective Visual Regions.
Abstract: Human behavior can be remarkably shaped by experience, such as the removal of sensory input. Many studies of conditions such as stroke, limb amputation, and vision loss have examined how removal of input changes brain function. However, an important question yet to be answered is: when input is lost, does the brain change its connectivity to preferentially use some remaining inputs over others? In individuals with healthy vision, the central portion of the retina is preferentially used for everyday visual tasks, due to its ability to discriminate fine details. When central vision is lost in conditions like macular degeneration, peripheral vision must be relied upon for those everyday tasks, with some portions receiving "preferential" usage over others. Using resting-state fMRI collected during total darkness, we examined how deprivation and preferential usage influence the intrinsic functional connectivity of sensory cortex by studying individuals with selective vision loss due to late stages of macular degeneration. Specifically, we examined functional connectivity between category-selective visual areas and the cortical representation of three areas of the retina: the lesioned area, a preferentially used region of the intact retina, and a non-preferentially used region. We found that cortical regions representing spared portions of the peripheral retina, regardless of whether they are preferentially used, exhibit plasticity of intrinsic functional connectivity in macular degeneration. Cortical representations of spared peripheral retinal locations showed stronger connectivity to MT, a region involved in processing motion. These results suggest that the long-term loss of central vision can produce widespread effects throughout spared representations in early visual cortex, regardless of whether those representations are preferentially used. These findings support the idea that connections to visual cortex maintain the capacity for change well after critical periods of visual development.


Title: Applying low levels of strain to model nascent phenomenon of retinal pathologies.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of vision loss in aging populations. A better understanding of the mechanisms of the disease, especially at early stages, could elucidate new treatment targets. One characteristic of AMD is strain on the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), a crucial layer of the retina. This strain can be caused by physical phenomena like waste aggregation underneath the RPE, drusen formation, or leaky blood vessels that infiltrate the retina during choroidal neovascularization (CNV). It is not well understood how strain affects RPE cell function. Most models generate equibiaxial strain or higher levels of strain that are not representative of early stages of AMD. To overcome these issues, we engineered a device to cause controlled, low amounts of localized, radial strain (maximum ∼1.4%). This strain level is more mimetic to what occurs during aging or at the beginning of physical disruptions experienced during AMD. To evaluate how RPE cells respond to this physical stimulus, primary porcine RPE cells were exposed to low levels of strain applied by our custom-made device. Cell secretions and genetic expression were analyzed to determine how proteins linked to drusen and CNV are affected. The results indicate that this low amount of strain does not immediately initiate angiogenesis but causes changes in mRNA expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP), which plays a role in retinal health and drusen accumulation. This research offers insight into AMD progression as well as the health of other organs, including the brain.


Title: Restoring and sustaining human postmortem retinal light responses with scalable methods for testing degenerative disease therapies.
Abstract: Neuro- and retinal degenerative diseases rob millions of aging individuals of their independence. Researching these diseases in human tissue has been hindered by the immediate loss of electric activity in neurons after the circulation ceases. Recent studies indicate that limited neuronal activity can be revived postmortem, even in the retina. We capitalized on this discovery by successfully restoring and maintaining 


Title: Utilisation of patient-centred outcome measures in age-related macular degeneration research and clinical practice: A systematic review.
Abstract: To identify the utilisation, type, and psychometric properties of patient-centered outcome measures (PCOMs) associated with the performance-based assessment of visual function (VF) in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in clinical care and research.


Title: Soluble endoglin as a biomarker of successful rheopheresis treatment in patients with age-related macular degeneration.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive chronic disease causing visual impairment or central vision loss in the elderly. We hypothesized that successful rheopheresis would be associated with positive changes in soluble endoglin (sENG), PSCK9, alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M), and hs-CRP levels. 31 elderly patients with the dry form of AMD, treated with rheopheresis with a follow-up period of at least 5 years and an average age of 68 ± 4 years, were evaluated. Each treated patient received a series of 8 procedures in 10 weeks and, after the 2-year period, another 2 procedures within 1 week. Then, the patients were followed up every 6 months and divided into the successfully treated and therapeutic failure group according to best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), size of the drusen area, and the drusenoid pigment epithelium detachment (DPED). Based on the ophthalmological assessment, rheopheresis treatment was successful in 73% of AMD patients. The therapy was associated with a significant decrease in total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C, apoprotein B, lipoprotein (a) levels, and rheologically important parameters, irrespective of the therapy's success or failure. The success of rheopheresis therapy was exclusively related to a significant decrease in sENG and A2M levels. Over the long term, rheopheresis prevented the decline of BCVA, reduced the DPED and area of macular drusen, and improved the preservation of an intact photoreceptor ellipsoid zone in most patients. Moreover, we showed for the first time that sENG and A2M could be potentially sensitive biomarkers of successful rheopheresis procedure, irrespective of lipid parameters changes.


Title: Cystoid macular oedema: a rare complication following selective laser trabeculoplasty.
Abstract: A female patient with previous vitrectomy for epiretinal membrane in the left eye underwent bilateral selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) for pigmentary glaucoma and subsequently developed cystoid macular oedema (CMO) in the vitrectomised eye. This resolved fully with treatment with topical steroids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) drops. This complication has been very rarely reported in the literature, and a subsequent internal audit found a very low rate of CMO temporally related to SLT of 0.07%. We suggest close follow-up and 'red flag' follow-up instructions to patients with previous vitrectomy or epiretinal membrane to watch for this complication, and clinicians may consider covering higher risk patients with an NSAID post-laser.


Title: Conditioned media from dental pulp stem cells to counteract age-related macular degeneration.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in the elderly. To date, there are no effective therapies to counteract AMD towards the most severe stages characterised by a progressive loss of photoreceptors triggered by retinal pigmented epithelium dysfunction. Given their easy source and their high proliferative potential, Dental Pulp Stem Cells (DPSCs) are considered promising for regenerative medicine. The main advantage of DPSCs is related to their paracrine immunosuppressive and immunoregulatory abilities, including the capability to promote regeneration of damaged tissues. Recent studies demonstrated the therapeutic potential of DPSCs-conditioned media (CM) in neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, we have already shown a differential expression of some growth factors and cytokines in CM derived from DPSCs cultured in hypoxia and normoxia conditions.


Title: Patient Preferences with Anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Treatment for Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration and Diabetic Macular Edema: A Multinational Discrete Choice Experiment Study.
Abstract: New anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) treatments are emerging for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME)/neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD). This study aimed to explore the treatment attributes patients find important when deciding on treatment options.


Title: [Efficacy of brolucizumab in the treatment of retinal pathologies: a review of post-marketing studies].
Abstract: Brolucizumab, an angiogenesis inhibitor, is a single-chain fragment of a humanized antibody used to treat neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and diabetic macular edema (DME). Although registration studies are the primary source of information on the new drug, post-marketing studies allow for further exploration and expansion of previous knowledge about its effectiveness, safety, and dosing regimens. This study summarizes the experience with brolucizumab from real-world clinical practice studies. A systematic literature review was conducted to identify articles published up to April 2024 that investigated the use of brolucizumab in the treatment of retinal vasogenic diseases, revealing the high effectiveness of brolucizumab compared to other angiogenesis inhibitors in the treatment of patients with nAMD and DME, including those who were treatment-naïve and those resistant to ongoing therapy, as well as patients with changes in the vitreoretinal interface. A significant advantage of brolucizumab is its ability to reduce the number of injections and extend the intervals between them up to 16 weeks. Study results demonstrate substantial improvements in anatomical and functional outcomes compared to previously existing and newly emerging angiogenesis inhibitors. Its ability to stabilize disease progression, achieve better disease control, and reduce injection frequency makes brolucizumab an attractive option for both first-line therapy and as a switching drug, highlighting its potential for expanded indications.


Title: [Objective structural and functional monitoring of polypeptide retinal neuroprotective therapy in diabetic retinopathy].
Abstract: In recent years, there has been a growing interest in the contribution of neuroretinal degeneration to the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy (DR), preceding the classic vascular changes associated with DR.


Title: Exploring the relationship between cathepsin and age-related macular degeneration using Mendelian randomization.
Abstract: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of low vision and even blindness in the elderly population worldwide. However, no studies have been conducted to analyze the causal relationship between the cathepsin family and AMD. The present study aimed to explore and analyze this potential association using Mendelian randomization (MR).


Title: Intravitreal Faricimab in treatment-naïve neovascular age-related macular degeneration: real-world outcome of 12-week extension after the loading dose from a UK centre.
Abstract: To assess the visual outcome of extension to 12-weekly intervals (Q12W) following 4 loading doses of intravitreal Faricimab injections as described in the TENAYA and LUCERENE trials for the management of treatment-naïve neovascular Age-related Macular Degeneration (nAMD).


Title: Type 3 MNV in AMD: baseline predictors of 3-year macular atrophy development.
Abstract: To identify baseline optical coherence tomography (OCT) predictors of the 3-year macular atrophy (MA) development for type 3 macular neovascularization (MNV) secondary to neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) treated by anti-VEGF therapy.


Title: Optimizing retinal Imaging: Evaluation of ultrasmall TiO
Abstract: Fundus Fluorescein Angiography (FFA) has been extensively used for the identification, management, and diagnosis of various retinal and choroidal diseases, such as age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, retinopathy of prematurity, among others. This exam enables clinicians to evaluate retinal morphology and the pathophysiology of retinal vasculature. However, adverse events, including from mild to severe reactions to sodium fluorescein, have been reported. Titanium dioxide nanoparticles (NPTiO


Title: Automated Detection of Drusenoid Pigment Epithelial Detachments From Spectral-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography in Patients With AMD.
Abstract: This study aimed to develop an algorithm for automated detection of drusenoid pigment epithelial detachments (DPEDs) in optical coherence tomography (OCT) volumes of patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and to compare its performance against traditional reading center grading on color-fundus photographs (CFPs).


Title: A Novel Optometry-Led Decision-Making Community Referral Refinement Scheme for Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration Screening.
Abstract: The prevalence of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) continues to increase. Hospital Eye Services are operating above capacity, innovative solutions to minimise the high proportion of false negative referrals, improve the care pathway and increase capacity for those patients who need ongoing care are essential are essential.


Title: Novel Plasma Kallikrein Inhibitors for Treating Multiple Diseases.
Abstract: Provided herein are novel plasma kallikrein inhibitors, pharmaceutical compositions, use of such compounds in treating hereditary angioedema, uveitis, posterior uveitis, wet age-related macular degeneration, diabetic macular edema, diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion and processes for preparing such compounds.


